README.md, before:

# GenCertify

A Certification Readiness and Document Drafting Tool that evaluates a startup's preparedness for key certifications (e.g., ISO 27001, SOC 2, GDPR, etc.) and generates tailored compliance documents using Generative AI.

## Features

- **Static Input Module**: Collect organizational details, certification preferences, and document uploads
- **Chat Interface**: Interactive evaluation through conversational AI
- **Readiness Evaluation**: Analyze documents against certification standards to identify compliance gaps
- **Document Drafting**: Generate tailored compliance documents based on input data
- **Output Generation**: Produce comprehensive readiness reports with compliance scores and recommendations
- **Simple Logging**: Track errors and key events to guide improvements

## Tech Stack

- **Language & Framework**: Python with FastAPI
- **AI/ML Integration**: Google Vertex AI, OpenAI, and Anthropic models
- **Containerization**: Docker
- **Deployment**: Google Cloud Run
- **Data Storage**: Google Firestore and Google Cloud Storage
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
- **Security**: Google Cloud IAM and Secret Manager

## Live Demo

Check out the live demo at: https://gencertify-235850710154.us-central1.run.app/

The application is automatically deployed using GitHub Actions whenever changes are pushed to the master branch. This CI/CD pipeline ensures the latest code is always available in production.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- Docker
- Google Cloud SDK

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd GenCertify
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Set up environment variables:
   ```
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

5. Run the application:
   ```
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

### Docker Development

1. Build the Docker image:
   ```
   docker build -t gencertify .
   ```

2. Run the container:
   ```
   docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env gencertify
   ```

### Cloud Deployment

1. Set up Google Cloud services:
   ```
   # Create a Cloud Storage bucket
   gcloud storage buckets create gs://[PROJECT_ID]-gencertify

   # Create secrets for API keys
   echo -n "your-openai-api-key" | gcloud secrets create openai-api-key --data-file=-
   echo -n "your-anthropic-api-key" | gcloud secrets create anthropic-api-key --data-file=-
   ```

2. Deploy to Cloud Run:
   ```
   gcloud run deploy gencertify --source . --platform managed --region us-central1 \
     --set-env-vars="APP_NAME=GenCertify,ENVIRONMENT=production,..." \
     --set-secrets="OPENAI_API_KEY=openai-api-key:latest,ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=anthropic-api-key:latest" \
     --port=8080
   ```

3. For automated CI/CD, see the GitHub Actions workflow in `.github/workflows/`.

## Development Mode

When running in development mode, the application uses mock services for:
- Firestore database
- Cloud Storage
- AI model interactions

This allows you to test the application flow without setting up the actual cloud services.

## Project Structure

```
GenCertify/
├── .github/                # GitHub Actions workflows
├── app/                    # Application code
│   ├── api/                # API endpoints
│   ├── models/             # Data models
│   ├── services/           # External service integrations
│   │   ├── ai/             # AI integration services
│   │   ├── firestore.py    # Firestore service
│   │   └── storage.py      # Cloud Storage service
│   ├── static/             # Static assets
│   ├── templates/          # HTML templates
│   └── main.py             # Application entry point
├── .env.example            # Example environment variables
├── .gitignore              # Git ignore file
├── Dockerfile              # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Docker Compose configuration
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
└── README.md               # Project documentation
```

## License

[MIT License]

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See the [issues](../../issues) page for open tasks or create a new issue to propose features or report bugs.

Commit message:

Add deployment architecture details to README

README.md, after:

# GenCertify

A Certification Readiness and Document Drafting Tool that evaluates a startup's preparedness for key certifications (e.g., ISO 27001, SOC 2, GDPR, etc.) and generates tailored compliance documents using Generative AI.

## Features

- **Static Input Module**: Collect organizational details, certification preferences, and document uploads
- **Chat Interface**: Interactive evaluation through conversational AI
- **Readiness Evaluation**: Analyze documents against certification standards to identify compliance gaps
- **Document Drafting**: Generate tailored compliance documents based on input data
- **Output Generation**: Produce comprehensive readiness reports with compliance scores and recommendations
- **Simple Logging**: Track errors and key events to guide improvements

## Tech Stack

- **Language & Framework**: Python with FastAPI
- **AI/ML Integration**: Google Vertex AI, OpenAI, and Anthropic models
- **Containerization**: Docker
- **Deployment**: Google Cloud Run
- **Data Storage**: Google Firestore and Google Cloud Storage
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
- **Security**: Google Cloud IAM and Secret Manager

## Live Demo

Check out the live demo at: https://gencertify-235850710154.us-central1.run.app/

The application is automatically deployed using GitHub Actions whenever changes are pushed to the master branch. This CI/CD pipeline ensures the latest code is always available in production.

### Deployment Architecture

The application uses Workload Identity Federation to securely authenticate GitHub Actions with Google Cloud Platform. This modern approach eliminates the need for storing service account keys in GitHub Secrets and improves security by:

1. Using short-lived credentials
2. Establishing identity-based trust between GitHub Actions and GCP
3. Following the principle of least privilege

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- Docker
- Google Cloud SDK

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd GenCertify
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Set up environment variables:
   ```
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

5. Run the application:
   ```
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

### Docker Development

1. Build the Docker image:
   ```
   docker build -t gencertify .
   ```

2. Run the container:
   ```
   docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env gencertify
   ```

### Cloud Deployment

1. Set up Google Cloud services:
   ```
   # Create a Cloud Storage bucket
   gcloud storage buckets create gs://[PROJECT_ID]-gencertify

   # Create secrets for API keys
   echo -n "your-openai-api-key" | gcloud secrets create openai-api-key --data-file=-
   echo -n "your-anthropic-api-key" | gcloud secrets create anthropic-api-key --data-file=-
   ```

2. Deploy to Cloud Run:
   ```
   gcloud run deploy gencertify --source . --platform managed --region us-central1 \
     --set-env-vars="APP_NAME=GenCertify,ENVIRONMENT=production,..." \
     --set-secrets="OPENAI_API_KEY=openai-api-key:latest,ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=anthropic-api-key:latest" \
     --port=8080
   ```

3. For automated CI/CD, see the GitHub Actions workflow in `.github/workflows/`.

## Development Mode

When running in development mode, the application uses mock services for:
- Firestore database
- Cloud Storage
- AI model interactions

This allows you to test the application flow without setting up the actual cloud services.

## Project Structure

```
GenCertify/
├── .github/                # GitHub Actions workflows
├── app/                    # Application code
│   ├── api/                # API endpoints
│   ├── models/             # Data models
│   ├── services/           # External service integrations
│   │   ├── ai/             # AI integration services
│   │   ├── firestore.py    # Firestore service
│   │   └── storage.py      # Cloud Storage service
│   ├── static/             # Static assets
│   ├── templates/          # HTML templates
│   └── main.py             # Application entry point
├── .env.example            # Example environment variables
├── .gitignore              # Git ignore file
├── Dockerfile              # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Docker Compose configuration
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
└── README.md               # Project documentation
```

## License

[MIT License]

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See the [issues](../../issues) page for open tasks or create a new issue to propose features or report bugs.
